# Expert Coding using JavaScript - Lesson 2 Activity 0
### @explicitHints true

## Step 1 @unplugged

Let's learn a little more about how the Internet works. 

The Internet is a **computer network consisting of interconnected networks that use standardized, open (nonproprietary) communication protocols.**
To access the internet, you need a device like a computer, smartphone, or tablet. These devices connect to the internet through an Internet Service Provider (ISP) using technologies like Wi-Fi, Ethernet cables, or cellular networks.

## Step 2 @unplugged

When you send or receive information over the internet, it is passed through a data stream which contains chunks of data.  This data is in packets. **Each packet contains a piece of the information you want to share, along with the necessary instructions to reach its destination.** These packets travel through the internet separately. They may arrive in order, out of order, or not at all.  When they arrive, they are reassembled. 

## Step 3 @unplugged

**The protocols used in the Internet are open, which allows users to easily connect additional computing devices to the Internet.** IP, TCP, and UDP are common protocols used on the Internet.

**Every device connected to the internet has a unique identifier called an IP (Internet Protocol) address.** It is similar to a phone number or an address that helps computers find and communicate with each other. IP addresses are like digital labels that allow data to be sent and received between devices

## Step 4 @unplugged

**Routers are special devices that help direct data packets across the internet.** Think of them as traffic cops that decide the most efficient path for the packets to reach their destination. They examine the IP addresses on the packets and forward them to the next router until they reach their intended destination. Routing on the Internet is usually dynamic; it is not specified in advance.

## Step 5 @unplugged

Now that you've learned more about the Internet, go to the next NPC to help our Programming team with operators. 