# Expert Coding using JavaScript - Lesson 1 Activity 10

### @explicitHints true

  
  

## Step 1 @unplugged

In JavaScript, you can convert a variable from one type to another using **type conversion functions**. The most commonly used conversion functions are:

 - **parseInt():** Converts a string to an integer.
 - **parseFloat():** Converts a string to a floating-point number.
 - **Number():** Converts a value to a number.
 - **String():** Converts a value to a string.
 - **Boolean():** Converts a value to a boolean.

  

## Step 2 @unplugged

JavaScript uses two types of type conversions: **implicit and explicit**.

Implicit types conversions(coercion) is where JavaScript automatically converts a value from one data type to another, without the need for someone to make the change themselves. For example, we learned in the last lesson that the "+" operator can be used in both string concatenation, and addition of numbers, so when you use the "+" operator with both a string and a number, JavaScript will convert the number to a string.

  
## Step 3

Let's try out some examples of concatenation.

For Example:
  
**Concatenation of string and number**

Enter the code below and take note of the output.
  
    let result= "Hello" + 35 
    player.say(result)

#### ~ tutorialhint
```javascript
    let result= "Hello" + 35 
    player.say(result)
  ```


## Step 4

**Addition of a string and number**

Delete the code in the editor and then enter the code below and take note of the output.

    let sum = "3" + 5
    player.say(sum)
    //output 35
  
#### ~ tutorialhint
```javascript
      let sum = "3" + 5
    player.say(sum)
    //output 35
 ```

## Step 5 @unplugged
Explicit Type Conversion (type casting) is where you explicitly convert one data type to another using functions or operators, so you can ensure a specific data type before using that value.
For Example:

**Convert a string to a number**

    let num= parseInt("35")
    player.say(num)

**Convert a number to a string**

    let str= (35)
    player.say(str)

  
**Convert a Boolean to a string**

    let bool= true
    player.say(str)

  
**Convert a string to a Boolean**

  
    let bool2= Boolean("Hello")
    player.say(bool2)


## Step 6

In the space below, practice converting a number of your choice to a string, and say the answer in the chat. Then continue to the next activity. 