## Step 1

Python conditionals use **logic conditions**, like what you use in math class.  Here are some examples of these conditions. 
-   Equals:  a == b
-   Not Equals:  a != b
-   Less than:  a < b
-   Less than or equal to:  a <= b
-   Greater than:  a > b
-   Greater than or equal to:  a >= b

We can use these conditions inside If Statements. **If statements will run code if the condition turns out to be true.** 
In the example below, the If statement will check to see if the playerScore is greater than or equal to 100.  If comes back true, the player will say "I won!". 
Run the code below to see what happens. 

    playerScore = 120
    if playerScore >= 100: 
	    say("I won!") 
    

Notice the indentation in the code above.  **Python uses indentation to define the structure of code blocks**. Code blocks are used to group together related statements and control their execution. If you don't indent properly, you will get an error in your code. 
In the space below, fix the indentation of the if statement to make it run properly. 

    playerAge = 13
    if playerAge >= 13:
	say("You can play.")
    

Now it's your turn to practice writing an if statement. In the space below, write an if statement that will check to see if the player score is less than 10.  If it returns true, have the player say, "Keep working!"  

    enter code here

## Step 2

Logic statements can be extended beyond the simple If statement.   One conditional statement is the **if...else statement**. It expands the If statement to include an action that happens if the condition returns false.  Let's expand on our first example.  

In our first example, the If statements checking to see if the playerScore is greater than or equal to 100.  If it came back true, the player would say "I won!" Now let's expand it to include an else statement that will have the player say "Keep Playing" if the conditional came back false. 
Run the code below to see what happens. 

    playerScore = 90
    if playerScore >= 100: 
	    say("I won!")
    else: 
	    say("Keep playing")

In the space below, expand your previous code of the if statement that will check to see if the player score is less than 10.  If it returns true, have the player say, "Keep working!"  Now expand it to include an else statement what would have the player say "You won" if the conditional came back false. 

    enter code here

