**

## Step 1

**
In Python, a variable is a name that represents a **value**. You can think of it as a container that holds a specific piece of data. Variables can hold many types of data, such as: integers (numbers), strings, floats, booleans, lists, dictionaries, and more. To create variables in Python, you need to **give it a name and assign a value to it using the “=” operator.**

When naming variables, you need to keep the following in mind.

 - Variables must start with a **letter** or the **underscore character** (it can not start with a number).
 - Variables are **case sensitive** (ex: if you capitalize a letter, you must capitalize it every time you use that variable)
 - Variables can only have **numbers, letters, and the underscore character.**
 - Your variable should be named something that **reflects what your variable represents.** 

For our variable activities, we will have use the code say(message) to make the player say the message and it will appear on your screen. For example:

    playerage = 13
    say(playerAge)

 In the area below, practice creating a variable for the number of lives a player starts with in our new pc game and assigning it a value of 5 and have the player say the number of lives to the console.

    enter code here


## Step 2

The variable you created above was an **integer variable**.  An integer variable is a variable that holds a **whole number** (positive, negative, or 0) without any decimal points. Integer variables are a common type of data used in programming, especially for calculating numbers. To create an integer variable in python, you assign an integer to a variable name.
For example:

    score = 0

You can perform various operations with integer variables such as arithmetic operations, comparison operations, and more. Arithmetic operations include addition (+), subtraction (-), multiplication (*), division (/), and modulus (/) (remainder).
For example:

    score = 0
    playerScore = 1
    finalScore = score + playerScore
    say(finalScore)

In the space below, create a variable named gamePoint that starts with the value of 0, and create a variable called extraPoint with the value of 1. Then create a variable called finalScore that adds the gamePoint variable and extraPoint variable. Have the player say the finalScore.

    enter code here
  
  
  ## Step 3

Comparison operations include checking if one integer is **equal to** (==), **greater than** (>), **less than** (<), **greater than or equal to** (>=), or **less than or equal to** (<=) another integer. 
In Python you can use comparison operators to perform these operations.  Here is an example.

    gameAge = 13
    playerAge = 14
    gameAge >= playerAge
    
  In the space below create a variable using the comparison operators of equal to, greater than, and less than that compares the scores of player1 (score of 7) and player2 (score of 5).  Have the player say the comparison operations using true or false statements.

    enter code here

 ## Step 4

A float variable is a variable that **holds a decimal number** (positive, negative, zero) with a floating decimal point. Float variables are a common type of data used in programming, especially for number calculations that use fractions. You can create a float variable the same way that we created integer variables: simply assign a floating-point value to a variable name.
For example:

    time = 2.5


You can perform arithmetic and comparison operations using float variables in the same ways that you did with integer variables above, only now you will have floating-point values.

In the space below create a variable for the game area that will appear on the PC screen.  You will need 2 variables, one for height and one for length and then use the arithmetic operator to calculate the area. Have the player say the area.

    enter code here

## Step 5

In Python, a string is a **sequence of characters enclosed in quotes** (either single or double quotes). Strings are a common type of data used in programming, especially for text-based applications.
 String Variables are a fundamental part of Python programming, and understanding how to work with them is essential for many applications. 
 To create a string variable in python, you simply assign a string value to a variable name.
 For example:

    playerName = "Steve"

In the space below create a variable for playerName with your name as the string. Have the player say the playerName.

    enter code here

You can perform various operations on string variables, such as concatenation, slicing, and formatting. **Concatenation is the process of combining two or more strings into a single string.** In python, you can use the "+" operator to concatenate strings. Use the “+” operator and have the player say your first and last name.

    firstName = "Jennifer"
    lastName = "Brown"
    fullName = firstName + " " + lastName 
    say(fullName)

In the space below use a concatenation string and have the player say your first and last name using the + operator for the variable playerName.

    enter code here

## Step 6

Slicing is the process of **extracting a portion of a string**. In python, you can use the square bracket symbol to slice a string. 
When slicing strings in Python, you need to use a **string index**. 
A string index refers to the **position of each character in a string.** 
The index of a string starts at 0, which means the first character in the string has an index of 0, the second character has an index of 1, and so on.
Run the example below to see how it works. 

    my_string = "The Player's Name is Steve."
    # slice from index 0 to 3 (exclusive) 
    substring1 = my_string[0:3] 
    say(substring1) 
    
    # slice from index 4 to 17 (exclusive) 
    substring2 = my_string[4:17] 
    say(substring2) 
    
    # slice from index 18 to the end of the string
     substring3 = my_string[18:] 
     say(substring3) 
     
     # slice from index -6 to the end of the string
      substring4 = my_string[-6:] 
      say(substring4)


In the space below, write the code to slice the string "Coding in Minecraft is awesome" from index 0 to 10 and from index 12 to the end of the string.

    enter code here

