
## Step 1

You can use the **logical operators** of AND, OR, and NOT in your If Statements to combine conditionals. 
When you use the logical operator AND you are creating an If Statement that requires **BOTH conditionals to return TRUE for the If Statement** to run.
Before running the code below, decide if you think the player will say "Both Conditions are True."  Then run the code to see if your prediction was correct. 

    a = 100
    b = 90
    c = 80
    
    if a > b and c > a:  
		say("Both conditions are True")


You should have seen that even though a was greater than b the if statement still was false because c was not greater than a.  In the space below, fix the code so that the player will say "Both conditions are True."

    a = 100
    b = 90
    c = 80
    
    if a > b and c > a:  
		say("Both conditions are True")

## Step 2

When you use the logical operator of **OR**, only **one of the conditions need to be true** in order for the If Statement to run. Look at the code below.  Do you think the If Statement will run in the code below?  Run it to check your prediction. 

    a = 100
    b = 90
    c = 80
    
    if a > b or c > a:  
		say("One condition is True")

You should have seen that the player did say "One Condition is True because a is greater than b.  It didn't matter if c was less than a because it only needed 1 condition to be true. 
In the space below, create an if statement that uses the or operator. We have given you the variables to use. 

    d = 210
    e = 30
    f = 300



## Step 3

When you use the operator NOT, **you are testing the reverse of a conditional.**  Look at the code below and decide if the player will say "a is NOT greater than b then run the code to test your prediction. 

    a = 33  
    b = 200  
    if not a > b:  
	    say("a is NOT greater than b")

You should have seen that the player did say "a is NOT greater than b" because a is NOT greater than b.  
In the code below, write a code using the NOT operator that has the player say "c is greater than d." 

    enter code here